it's double feature week here at hot
line League episode 25 is airing just
one day after episode 24 that's because
we had such a great guest plan for
tonight that we could we had just hit
him we had to get him there's so much
going on actually there's not that much
going on but it's a great time to get
them because we can talk about
everything we want to in the world
a messiah is coming up what's going on
with TSM these days we're gonna find out
because parth is here on the show
tonight to talk about all things
TSM league legends and more such a great
show for you guys tonight it's all
starting right now
hot line League is brought to you by
open by HP woohoo we're here we're here
that's right how do you know it's gonna
be a great show because every shows a
great show mark we don't plan anything
no but it always works out it always
works out and that voice that dulcet
tone that you just heard coming in
through your speakers your headset your
headphones whatever you're using that's
mark Zimmerman my constant yet host
how's it going mark pretty good not much
has changed in the 24 hours or less
since you last saw me talk to you about
the last 22 hours of your life mark can
you take me through this show I don't
really remember that much I think I
watched me anime okay I finished I
finished meeting this is I you're like I
think you should this is the moment with
you the fact that you've got nothing
going on this is what to start blogging
I want to see a daily vlog of your life
I'm telling you the daily vlogs in a
chair or my bed I went out I got like
quarters to do laundry I did some dishes
and then I went back to my room nice
that's sick man I mean that's the vlog I
want to watch I just want it to be like
the camera angle changes and every time
the camera angle changes it's been a
couple hours you're just like yep just
watched a couple more episodes was that
a debate I was watching two hours ago
did you see that video I made like last
year maybe like a year and a half ago
about like how bored I was waiting for
the AH like LCS to start
no this is a perfect time to do it you
do plug my own shit you can introduce
parts though cuz I'm not gonna like okay
thank you thank you for information our
necks beside the coast we're joined by a
man that me needs no introduction yet
I'm gonna introduce him anyway it's
parth from TSM who's choosing this
moment to take a drink of water
parlous how's it going not too bad if
you want to explain you've you finally
wore me down yes travis has been trying
to get me to do this show since it
started and after 20 dates he was
finally like that's actually what
happened was I said part as you do you
or anyone from TSM want to come on the
show we'll take any of the players
that'd be great and Parr said if you
can't find anyone at like after 24 hours
he's like if you can't find anyone else
I'll do it because no one else wants to
that was what he said so this is a one
TSM person we were able to secure but
you know what it's the most important T
of some person you know there's a lot of
people they talk up you're talking about
Han sir they talk about whoever but it's
really about this guy right here he's
the person that makes it happen Perth
actually you want to explain a little
bit about yourself for those that don't
know your role at TSM sure so brief
history of me with TSM I joined them as
an analyst back in 2015 2016 2017 I was
kind of there doing management work then
I became a coach for a year and a half
and then I'm back back working at the
office I kind of act as the coach is
that the offices because that's the
offseason school no I work with both
League of Legends teams both the Academy
and the main thing main team my job is
pretty boring so yeah that's me that's
how it used to be a Boeing engineer or
something right
I don't know we want to go that far back
I mean that's even more boring so yeah
but it's great to like to build 747s
yeah I do know how to build a fuselage
we're twenty four seven four seven get
me some like composite prepreg and I can
crank one out for you what if I got you
some empty boxes what
you build me I can give you a nicer
looking bucks I can trust up on it if we
if anybody wants to call in to the show
tonight and ask about 747 fuselages we
can totally make that happen I actually
probably can't because I was in the R&B
group and a lot of what I did was under
NDA so okay maybe not well yeah well
when does that lift ever whatever like I
never asked you should ask right now so
no text message so mr. Boeing right yeah
yeah all right well part this here
there's a lot of hype around it
life is great mark do you want to talk a
little bit about how this show works
since parth is unfamiliar yeah yeah oh
wait I watch every episode Travis I log
in at 8 p.m. every Monday and you watch
every show yeah that's what I meant and
then I watch the segment's that happen
which mark will now explain to you yeah
what was your favorite so far parse the
one with you and marking it oh yeah
there is a bit a couple those actually
how'd you like our live show I realized
that you guys did a live show because I
was watching the twitch stream before
this thing started so that's and I wish
I'd seen it when it was live all right
hard explain all the show works
it might young sir you want to swap out
parts you get Mike Mike didn't yeah this
go work all right all right so the way
the show works for people who have not
been here before we have a discord
server I'll be spamming the link in a
second you're gonna want to join the
discord server when you are there there
are text channels and there are voice
channels you're gonna need to Travis
change little names so you're gonna need
to call into the pleb calls join that
group or the subject or the subs if you
are a sub to this channel and then I'm
gonna pull you from there but you're
gonna put your takes or your questions
or whatever in the text chat
a channel general so that's where you'll
write things oh I know there's actual a
different chassis this is I'm fucked
here there's actually a text journal
called plebs call in that's where you're
gonna put all your takes so if you want
to say parth was a great coach
parth was the best coach North America
has ever had Partha was the worst coach
whatever it is whatever you're hot
taking is posted in there and then I'll
pull you into the waiting room will do a
mic check and then you'll join room very
good so before we get into calls just a
quick bit of conversation part I don't
know has there been any content or any
interviews or anything that I've missed
anything around like what happened with
TSM following the loss and playoffs no
okay great well then you're the first
person that we get to talk to about this
what's happened with TSM and the
playoffs they lost oh very early on you
know how did that happen
so we definitely talked to and by that I
mean me and Andy we talked to the
players and coaches a little bit
afterward the biggest problem that TSM
had going into the season was it was the
players and coaches weren't really
organized in the way that they needed to
be because venomoth you were coming from
EU and had like a different expectation
of how a team is run burek and kevin had
one expectation and song and lustboy
were sort of used to their system of
coaching and when the three sort of came
together it was kind of a really weird
mishmash where and neither neither if
the parties wanted to step on each
other's toes in terms of how to really
do things and they slowly had to figure
it out as the season went on so what I
mean by that is like it's everything
from fundamentally from like how do you
run practice to how do you approach prep
for games to like what kind of stuff are
you looking at when you Scout opponents
like all that needed to be built from
scratch to suit the current team that we
had because everyone takes processes and
uses information differently so even
though we were able to sort of iron out
a lot of the
during the regular season towards like
week nine between week nine and our
quarters I don't think that the staff
and players really had the right mindset
in terms of preparation for clutch and
so I think when we did end up playing
against them a lot of thought was it
wasn't even nerves
it was just lack of preparation that it
ended up into being bad play and in the
middle of series we just didn't have the
adaptations that we needed in order to
win so that's like the long-winded
answer but mostly I think clutch did a
pretty good job of identifying what they
were good at and they just had like a
game plan and we just didn't respect
that as much by the way not to earth was
this thing but I think a lot of people
in the discord are just putting
questions in we just pulled some
questions but it's much more interesting
when you guys have like a take you know
we don't want this to be a Q&A show like
you should call it and say like I think
clutch was actually terrible and it's
crazy TSM lost or I think wait wait
don't get me wrong I don't think clutch
was very good and we should have won
that match but we just didn't do the
right things in order to you see that's
an example of a take that you could have
not a question another one would be I
think TSM wants because the best of
threes or I think team like what's gonna
win em aside where doesn't have to be
constrained to just par 30s em so that's
the type of stuff that we tend to like
the most is some interesting calls and
and interesting takes yeah I don't
remember what I pulled thus far so we'll
see what we get great and then maybe
I'll start looking for hotter takes if
it's just a QA but who knows maybe
that's what we want mark do you have any
questions for parth before we get in so
I don't know if this is on the way yet
and I know I already asked missing
person but I'd love just to have him
talk about it this is the first time TSM
has ever had a legitimate offseason the
way that like other teams have had when
you just get knocked out CSN's always
the one representing us at different
international competitions or at the
very least they make it to the finals
and here they're out early they got
nothing to do and I just want to ask
parth how does it feel it fucking sucks
I I mean more than losing like I don't
even care that like it sucks that we
lost but it sucks that we now have
nothing to do for like two two and a
half months whatever it is I think
people talk about how going to
tournaments needs to burn out a lot but
that's I guess kind of because I've
never had to see the other side of it
which is the teams that don't make it
are just sitting around for like two or
three months and don't have anything to
do so I think if anything else the
motivation to win next lid is going to
be more we don't want to be dicking
around for four months after if we don't
make it to Worlds I mean it's weird and
that this like I feel we're talking the
t have some players I remember how
exhausting it was for them to like
decide if they were gonna go to
all-stars at the end of the year because
they had so little time off it's kind of
strange that now I mean obviously
unfortunately came unfortunate that it
came from a loss but that now it's the
other world where it's like actually we
need more time to play that was my my
personal take yeah it wasn't like
representative of the players well you
said it's gonna be the major motivation
for the team going into summer well it's
gonna be my major motivation to help the
team move forward as a manager I kind of
have to so yeah I was gonna say also
like there's probably some middle ground
as well between like we get knocked out
and have three months off and like we
literally never get a break I'm sure
there's something in the middle there
that that's a little bit more workable
yeah and all-stars is a little bit
different because all-stars is not like
a even though I was framed as a very
like competitive tournament I don't
think that a lot of pros that went to it
really had that mindset or treated it
that way right alright well should we go
ahead and start serving people I do want
to really quickly mark I just want to
give a shout out to some people who hit
up the sub system the hit the hippy
Steve Chadli X Brandon Ian small lung
visi no she says hi have a great day how
many
French few golf 82 bobo color gifted
such a couple ulu its Volks and we
should be getting that next caller
any minute until the call to bomb on to
remain 1325 OG 4717 Shasta and to a man
1325 sent 2,000 bits and says can half
of this go to mark it's great marks
night on the channel so he want it oh
hey Mark hey I have heard that joke
before argent is here argent where you
calling from Mexico City from Mexico
City
okay well welcome to the show I just
turned you up you're a little quiet but
what would you like to talk about on the
show today can you hear me
yeah yeah I think you're good now what
would you like to talk about I actually
want to ask part opinion as a coach a
wreckless was recently in Korea said
basically he's saying the Korean solo
queue is harder than they you final and
then he says playing that he signed a
three-year contract with fanatics and
etc but then he said before signing that
contract he consider and he several
Korean and Chinese students I say
basically I'm willing to put on the work
I I will learn the language will do
whatever it takes
Trajan and a single team Oh M say
anything to him and now we know that the
the Korean teams are looking for 210 man
roster so we know they're looking for
players what do you think about class me
opinion like too realistic for an EU
player to say I can go in a Korean team
and make a make it to world because he
said that like one joying chips any team
he won't he doesn't want to
your team he wants one of the big teams
and he said I can join any Korean team
and make it to Worlds and win it
realistic of him or is he just being a
little confident because he one day you
owe the huge championship okay so so
reckless went over to Korea he obviously
thinks the competition over there's
better because he said silk user more
difficult college that the EU finals and
just chiming in real quick on that point
reckless knows how to make fans that's
what I'll say reckless knows what people
like to hear and he knows how to put on
a show as we've seen from his onstage
stuff so yeah ok we'll go with that
so that's that's my opinion on what he
said so either way he said that but he
also said during the ulcer time when I
interviewed and I think other people
that he had opportunities with Korean
and Chinese teams so is there is that a
is it reasonable that we could see an EU
player that he could have gone over and
competed on and China a Korea on one of
the top teams
I don't think personally I don't think
mechanically that reckless is any like
far off from any of the top 80 carries
in Korea that you see right now but the
biggest thing is you have to be able to
speak Korean fluently and not just that
in order for a player to move to a
different country and speak a different
language you also have to deal with a
lot of cultural differences the problem
that a lot of people don't really see
about players coming to na from Korea
for example is that even though they
slowly learn English and they can do
interviews and they can speak enough
English in order to play the game and
communicate with their teammates there's
also like big cultural aspect of how do
you live in like an environment a
coaching structure that is completely
different than their own and I think
reckless would find the Korean training
regiment and then the way they do things
and just the environment a lot harder
and he would have if he was just talking
about like his mechanical skill so if he
was just talking about like oh I'm good
enough to play on a team then I'm sure
he is but if he's considering doing that
in terms of like communication
environment and everything else I don't
think it's super realistic for like an
EU player who doesn't already speak
Korean to go and do that so sorry is it
because he doesn't speak Korean or do
you think it's because of the training
regimen oh no no training regimen is
just part of it it's just like the
entire environment of how I like Korea
done things versus China does things and
it does things it's just very different
like regionally there's very different
cultural aspects of how everything is
done and I do think that it takes a lot
of time for players to adjust if they
even end up adjusting at all and I think
that realistically Western players who
have grown up in na or you who have gone
through like that system it's gonna be
really hard for them to adapt to
anything else what what about the Korean
and Chinese systems do you think it is
that it's so difficult cuz obviously we
have instances where Korean and Chinese
players have come to America they seem
to really like it here to accept that so
like we joke talked about using a
deferment plan right I know it's a
distribution I don't think like everyone
has liked it I think almost conversely
few people like it or have actually used
that to like get more successful I think
yeah I think that's a true fact yeah I
would I mean like even people who might
enjoy some of the lifestyle advantages
that come from from playing here like
there's the actual like parts are not
like the structure things like in terms
of like just not like in the Korean
structure everyone talked about how
important the coach is and they tell you
what to do and all this stuff it's it's
in especially Europe for my
understanding it's more free-flowing
in terms of like players having control
over things and like getting told what
to do is a big deal and getting told
what to do in a different language is a
big deal in getting told what to do and
then having no one else to talk about or
bicha to about what you're getting told
like there's this a lot of layers on top
of it and that that's been felt even by
Korean players coming in North America
if like they get told what to do but
they don't like they don't speak the
language as well they
hard time expressing their concerns with
what they're getting told to do and like
you can't have a full-out like good
conversation about it yeah even with the
translator which adds just like another
layer does that make sense for you
argent or any other kind of follow-up
questions yeah I mean I wanted to ask a
wee inward na is trying to improve a not
only the region so you're kind of
breaking up urgently
hello can you repeat that part sorry
okay with the franchising I think DNA is
trying to improve the region and also
improve the players in some years like
let's say five years into franchising
years interface I see we see na players
going to other regions because right now
we only see Korean Chinese players EU
players coming to an a but we don't
really see new players go into other
regions I think it will be possible
it'll never happen that's my opinion
implies we don't have anyone like we
don't have we have a smaller player base
than the other three major regions by a
substantial margin like million-plus
less than the other three quote-unquote
major regions it's like if someone comes
along who is so talented that they
should go across the seas someone's
gonna pay for that guy especially with
franchising like that if that guy's so
good that Korea wants it more China
wants him like that means he's the stud
pick that guy up he'll be your franchise
player for forever don't let him go
across the ocean so I think it could
happen but it only happens in like a
pretty apocalyptic scenario where na LCS
collapses so oh whoa I mean I mean she
just say it's like fire ants into
franchising and everything is more
stable not like oh yeah in a world where
now like five years ten years later yeah
yeah like I mean I could see that like
let's say franchising fails which i
think is not a crazy like I think
hopefully this will work and I think the
chances are
work but if they even if there's a 10 or
20 percent chance that it doesn't work
and the teams don't get what they want
and all this money pulls out and like
salaries drop in na LCS North America
becomes like just a series of
tournaments because they can't really
support a league anymore right can't
find the sponsors or whatever then we
start to become kind of like what
Starcraft used to be where you did have
Western players going to create a
compete because that was where the
premier tournaments were and there
wasn't much to keep them around in North
America yeah I guess if the question is
barring an economic collapse of the
North American scene then sure
anything's possible I don't know what
that future looks like as long as na
exists good and a talent will stay here
and I'm not saying an economic collapse
is impossible either I'm just saying
that wasn't the situation it's hard for
anyone to want to leave the best region
in the world Argent thank you so much
for calling in really appreciate it I
think you're saying thank you but I
gotta bring Michelle just assume it
thank you so much all right so thanks
again to argent for calling in Jordan
reset for months caedm on 98 Mesirow Lee
the Ross Geller
of all sub thank you guys so much for
your support of the show mark is back
and with him is raging pianist that is a
person who plays the piano easily yes
indeed very angrily eating the keys of
the piano yes as you do you play the
piano
yeah been playing for like 20 years now
okay is it a profession for you no try
to pass the bar exam now okay and that's
not that's not helping you the piano
although it definitely helps okay just a
stress relief thing nice where are you
calling from
I'm calling from Brooklyn for Brooklyn
nice okay yep so what would you actually
so go ahead so I actually met you at MSG
I remember that teen it was really great
to see you man mmm yeah we was a great
moment for me during
what do you want to talk about on the
track oh no so I just wanted to talk
about the fact that ours was a analyst
just like Mark and he made his way up to
head coaching position he was helping
people
he transitioned into it now he's not
coaching he's still working with the
team and you know we're talking about
mark what he's doing these days he's at
home you know we don't know we should
get a camera see what he's up to
watching anime but you know parts I
think you need to give him some
motivation get some coaching and do
something you know he has the skills
can't be working at that right analyst
desk forever so so wait wait he wants
you to pitch me on joining a team I
guess or something okay essentially yeah
it's just I don't know I feel like Mark
has a lot of skills too and I think he
did a lie I personally thought he would
be the head coach a liquid at some point
but it never happened and I'm a big
liquid fan so I just I don't know I want
to see him do something so parth why
should mark forsake his job he's a
actually I should say first Sica stuff
he's literally just sitting around on
his ass watching anime okay so what okay
so hold on just real quick cuz twitch
chats blow me up saying I picked this
guy for this I think one of the things
he said in the in the discord message
was about transitioning not only from
coaching but transitioning from coaching
to a team and I want to pick parts brain
because I also tried to do that and
didn't find it fulfilling so that's
where I thought this question was going
not pitching me on coming back to coach
somewhere oh yeah just generally the
transition well first off I do I
actually still like the question of
parts why shouldn't mark go back to
coaching or working as a team I said
okay now damn I can't sell mark on it
because I'm not coaching anymore like
awesome or fulfilling enough coaching is
a lot of stress and you work I don't
know like you literally think about
League non-stop and your players and
everything is gonna gonna go on
everything's gonna happen that weekend
what happens if you don't make playoffs
what happens if you don't get finals for
the first time what happens if you don't
make worlds what happens if you don't
get out of groups
you're constantly thinking out oh this
player needs to learn this stuff oh this
players and getting along this in the
last week it's literally just like a
giant thing of stress for like 12 to 14
hours a day and then the two hours
you're watching vods vods is like the
most relaxing part of any coach's day
anyone will tell you so yeah I can't
really pitch mark on coaching because
his life seems pretty chill right now
alright so yeah what was the follow-up
was the transition out of coaching well
so I think what I interpreted what what
raging penis was saying you can create I
was like that's what I said he was
saying something about transitioning
also from coaching to them like
management stuff at a team is staying
with the team as opposed like when
you're done coaching is leaving which is
what I did so I don't know why you have
found that fulfilling because I didn't
find it that way yeah cuz uh when I
first so when I first joined TSM I
wasn't really intending to stay in like
I when I first joined I wasn't even
looking to be like an analyst or part of
like a professional team I was more
interested in eSports like as a whole
and the industry and so part of that
after we lost 2015 worlds that's when I
talked to Andy and asked him if there
were opportunities for me like on the
management side to work with sponsors
work with other teams cuz it was more
interesting of a space for me and still
is and then the second thing is I enjoy
working with like super driven people
like Andy and Berg and just being around
them and helping them helping support
them in any way it can plus learning
more about the space is something that I
think is really fun and cool so it was
super easy for me to transition into
this role because I I might not have
like the best game knowledge but I had
like I can organize things and players
and everything pretty well and so that's
the sort of the skill set that I can use
and leverage that to the position I have
right now
Roger
do you have any other kind of follow-up
conversation points raging pianist well
I mean as someone who I'm planning on
eventually hopefully working within the
industry like I've worked I've talked to
Bryce blue and he helped actually
helping then I was in law school with
like some papers and stuff I don't know
maybe you guys have some tips on what I
can do to try to you know get my foot in
the door essentially what do you do and
so I'll be a lawyer right yeah exactly
like I mean ideally I'd like to work you
know as like a player agent or something
but just in any role really to just get
my foot in the door work because I you
know I've been even when I was in law
school I wrote like research papers on
legal issues back in like 2015 a lot of
them like franchising and stuff like
that already occurred but you know I
just kind of want to get my foot in the
door and I don't know if you guys have
any tips or anything I think it's hard
for us to give too much help around
being like a player agent or eSports
lawyer since it's it's a little bit
different than us I think I would
encourage you to do it though because I
think that there's a first off I don't
know how much money there is to be made
in that that business because a couple
of you sports are doing really well but
others aren't so you're you're probably
gonna like try to get involved with some
sort of startup or something that's
going to do this stuff but I think that
there's a really big need for player
agents and other kind of like lawyer ish
professionals in the space it's it's
hard for me to figure out who to refer
people to in certain situations where
I'm just like I don't like this person
you know random player needs this or
random personality or whatever like I
just don't know oftentimes I'm like
there's nobody who I can really refer
you to or maybe there is I don't I don't
know if they're very good at what they
do so I think it's a good path I just
don't it's kind of weird I was kind of a
weird one but I would talk to people in
the space but I also wouldn't be afraid
of like trying to kind of strike out on
your own it's just my somehow view you
have to kind of start to build trust
somehow yeah my biggest thing is like I
live in Brooklyn I live in New York and
everything happens in LA so that's good
you have to move in if you want to work
in sports in North America you have to
do it in LA unless you can maybe kind of
make it work in the Bay Area but outside
of California you're pretty much screwed
well also I would say like you know
eSports isn't some like magical land of
shit and stuff like it's an industry
like anything else so treat it like an
industry like anything else like how do
you apply to a job at a fortune 500
company or how do you apply to a job at
Wall Street like yeah I mean it's not
any different like there's a number of
people who have player reps you and
you'll find out what's one of the
companies they work for
for example press X is one that people
work for find some contacts that are
emailed them you know it's there's
there's not like a silver bullet tip
it's it's a job that you're hunting for
like any other job than anyone else
hunts for so treat it like that and it's
it's not this this like connections only
have to somehow get your foot in the
door I didn't have a foot in the door on
how parth got involved I just
even impressed him so like blindly
making anything can't send a fuselage to
Andy did I get oh I was just writing I
just took basically a year off I started
writing a bunch of shit I one point I
put it up on reddit and I hit the front
page and then random people just started
contacting me and then I slowly built my
connections that's also how ovie did it
oh he's a friend of mine that works at
catalyst and he I think I think that his
story was he was about to take the bar
exam and then decided he wanted to like
go full-time into eSports so he has like
he's like right there or you know he
could have done it but decided not to so
you should probably still take your Park
Sam but if you wanna if you want to look
up over you might be able to like he's a
pretty friendly guys his twitter
handle's esports guy okay I think it's
he might have some some advice for you
too if you can get him to reply to you
alright yeah that's that's very helpful
because I wasn't sure if it's like oh
like Mark was saying if it's a
connection based or if it's not
connection based you know I thought most
of the time it's connection base but I
mean like to hear every every industry
will be somewhat connection based yeah
she's obviously helped but like a lot of
us got started not because our friends
dragged us in here most of us like you
know we've found our opportunity yeah we
did something we found her
opportunity and then we made us some
people didn't want to say no to us yeah
hmm okay thank you but I just
well yeah shravan's did it based off
connections he just became best friends
with North Americans all right let's
move on hey thank you so much
raging penis for your collar Egyptian
thank you okay
okay oh oh we lost mark damn it mark I
needed to do a commercial wait we're
gonna go in the waiting room we're gonna
see what happens when marks what marks
mark I'm gonna do the policial you
always say that he's all right I told
him I don't know what was going on in
there but I hope you heard me listen
everybody it's time to talk about
something awesome and that awesome thing
it's owned by HP it is they are our
sponsor they've been supporting the show
since a little bit into this year I
think they are the first and only
sponsor we've ever had so I want to you
know it's just it's really nice it's
really nice that they support the show
twitchchat you always go crazy for this
I know I've seen a lot of people tweet
about them about the show and their
support I have see if Mark is doing
something hopefully not showing a
competitor part a product um no showing
the headset it's clear but in that shot
that was great behind me I'll be
bringing this with me to MSA if for when
I go that's probably more of a win but
you know they they just they make this
whole thing work and I I super
appreciate it I know you guys do I see
people talk about I'm on reddit I see
people talking about I'm on Twitter you
know they support everything from from
overwatch League all the way down to to
this show but you know what I honestly
kind of feel like you guys are such big
fans of the show you're even louder in
your support of omen by HP then those
overwatch people you know I don't see
people tweeting about they're supportive
overwatch League I think it's safe to
say you guys have embraced them so much
that you know I don't know I don't know
I'm not in the meetings but they might
even think that this is a better
investment I want to thank you guys so
much for supporting omen by HP you
they do a lot of really cool things
we're all we gonna do a little giveaway
soon they you can check out their twitch
page it's a twitch.tv slash omen by HP
they create content with CLG which is an
LCS team that they sponsor they've just
been doing a lot of really great stuff
I'm sure they've got even cooler stuff
around the corner and I don't know man I
just uh they're great mark thinks
they're great because they're probably
the only income he has right now you
know hmm only active income from okay
yeah
Hey look so that's the whole point here
Oh mark can eat because of over by HP
he'd be the only reason I have this
California chicken cafe Arnold Palmer
it's because of HP by omen no but
legitimate we joke around but they're a
great sponsor I want to thank him so
much you guys should follow him on
Twitter you should follow him on Twitter
should hit them up it's really cool that
they support the show they procreate
awesome products that I use all the time
I'm using them monitor right now I'm
using the desktop to broadcast it
they've supported a ton of cool stuff
that I've done hopefully have some more
cool stuff coming with them soon in the
future that I'll be able to talk about
and so thank you so much - Owen by HP
for sponsoring the show all right mark I
think we're ready for our next caller
oh man by HP what'd I say yeah that's
going do you say HP by omen yeah yeah
actually the gaming brand has gotten so
big it's supporting the whole thing
maybe bottom out big gravy is - show
tonight how's it going thick gravy oh
great let's get that's good to hear man
where you calling from can be going bad
uh from Tokyo Japan
from Tokyo Japan we've had so many
international callers recently that's so
cool I you know I've not been to Japan
it's like on my Tier one list of places
I need to go I hope that I can go soon -
hey tell me is the League of Legends
community cool there
the university is like there they have
been campaigned on like leaks so hard
but under the Jenner
player I think is not that much not that
many people all do you have it play
wishing legal playin so lost
yeah do you have friends that play
league like if you have a good amount of
friends and lot Japanese okay well I
still hope to visit I think it's that's
pretty cool do you watch there's a last
personal question I'll ask you watch a
lot of anime because mark is a big anime
guy mm nah not these days you're my
that's that's the answer I was looking
for thank you so much that great view
what do you want to talk about on the
show today on your interview on like
unlike YouTube on your channel when you
interview EE for beer they always say
part though with defending part and like
my summation that part is like the best
coach ever had like I just want to ask
fire professionally like like how close
you are with your player and like until
you got your like so many respect from
them parth why what is it about your
time as a coach that allows you to
command such respect from the players
like what did you do that lets deserving
of this I'm just first of all I'm still
close with all a lot of the players even
the ones that went to different teams
like I still get with Peter sometimes or
Vincent I would get food with Dennis but
he always bails on me so Dennis calling
you out right now I wouldn't say like I
still don't think that I was like I'm
not the complete coach that a team at
least an LCS team needs to be I was just
very good at taking it and using the
information that the players had and
organizing them in a way that made sense
because I think the one strengths that
players Pro players have is that have
they have a lot of in-depth knowledge of
how to play the game how to play their
role or what they don't understand is
how like the whole system kind of fits
together
like how should player a sacrifice in
order for me to happen how should how
can the decisions that we make now
impact like the next ten minutes of the
game and so I think while I don't think
I ever had like the concrete or the best
answers
I think it's equally a skill of a coach
to be able to both come up with like a
theory or recognize like what you need
to change gather feedback and figure out
like a process of here's how we're gonna
figure this problem out and then you go
from Step a to step B too sexy and then
you to resolve the problem or make sure
that at least it is you've concluded
that discussion to at least some sort of
satisfaction so you can move on the
hardest thing about like coaching or
working with a professional team is you
can always recognize problems and that's
always true like even on even reddit or
analyst outside the team will recognize
the problems that a team is having but
the biggest challenge is how do you take
the problem that you recognize and go
about solving it and I think I just had
like a good skill set for problem
solving and not necessarily having like
a base knowledge of the problems that
existed you know I think the big thing I
also did that I think other coaches kind
of overdue is I never overstepped the
thing on the inner part aspects of the
of my job that I wasn't good at so like
I wouldn't try to like discipline my
players super hard because that's not
like the personality I have or I
wouldn't like enforce like my personal
beliefs about X part of the game because
I recognize that they have a lot more
they have a like a stronger skill set in
that regard like I would never tell
Pearson how to play his lane because
there's no way that I would know better
than he would but I see a lot of coaches
that mess up that kind of try to do both
of those things and it's like one of the
things that I kind of really don't like
yes I think like for a concrete example
like I'm sure if someone asked parth
like we think about how this matchup
plays like like I think what he's saying
is like he's not the guy who's gonna be
like oh I've played that matchup because
I'm a super high rated player and I have
like rather than giving you the answer
of how to play that matchup he would
probably be able to work you through
different ways to play the matchup and
then like the player can find themselves
so it's like the difference of having an
answer and then being able to find an
answer
or help them find it right one thing
that I I've know from Peter is that it
you I think part of the reason is that
that people come in a lot of respect
from these players this you don't just
come in as strictly a coach I feel like
you also like are pretty good mentor to
you know young adults that are kind of
trying to figure out how to be how to
make it in the world how do you think
that that's fair because you I feel like
you've you've mentored these guys and
given them a lot of help in like support
and areas that aren't just in the gamer
as a team I think just naturally every
coach a person in like a position of
authority when they're working with
anyone from like 18 to 23 year olds has
to be a little bit of a mentor I don't
think I like went out of my way to do
that I actually think that and you grab
dinner with these guys still and like
check in on them good I mean I'm not
like I genuinely enjoy and care for them
and enjoy the company Tony doesn't get
daveandellen Peter I know Tony watches
this show yeah I don't I don't get I
mean that is no sociable can't you tell
by his yeah coming on talk shows for
this friends no cuz I like
philosophically I really believe that if
you're gonna be in competitive league of
Legends or anything like I like a high
level of competition where like there
are 67 million people who play this game
and if you want to be at some point the
best despite a despite how hard that may
seem like everyone who's been on TSM has
the goal that you can you have the base
scale in order to compete with everyone
even the best teams you just have to get
there at certain point and you have to
be willing to do the grind and my
philosophy was just based around the
idea that you either have to work you
have to work harder than everyone else
and smarter than everyone else and then
everything else kind of just falls into
place from that like I don't think I did
very much special than like care for the
players that I had and go through like
the philosophies of how we wanted to
treat everything that we did so yes
so I mean I think probably under selling
yourself a little bit just based off
what I've seen at least in the eSports
scene Bharat I always felt like there
were a lot of people who just like
lacked a lot of general competencies
beyond like the specifics of being good
at League of Legends and I always felt
like that was one of the things that I
brought and I'm sure you were very much
the same way where it's like you should
you should be doing things that you
should think about these outcomes and so
I'm a lot more about like general
problem-solving and logic and rationale
like procedure than it was about like
yeah this is the best way to play a Z
averse and like while that's useful you
also have five players who were pros and
like a coach bring in some that's more
lacking in the scene was at least when I
was coaching but I was you know I
started when they weren't really any it
wasn't any infrastructure like that was
way more valuable in my mind and like
hey here's another like here's how I
think we should play to be ones guys
even though like you know I did plenty
that as well I think it'll become more
prominent in the next three or five
years because first there needs to be a
scene in which like Pro Comp like a good
competition needs to exist and then you
need good coaches who devote a lot of
time to learn all the skills that they
need to and then on top of that there's
also going to be players who retire who
are actually more competent than the
ones that we see currently coaching and
burning professional teams so I think in
four to five years it will trend in that
direction I just don't think that the
scene is there yet and there's nothing
you can do except wait and give it time
yeah I don't think you can use like
brute force pilot like I think a couple
teams tried it TSM won as well where
they tried to bring in like more
experienced coaches from the outside
world and teach them legal legends and I
would say that universally failed like I
don't think anyone I mean we've at TSM
since I've been there we've gone through
every sort of iteration of like a type
of coach first we had like loco who was
like the first coach I think in na I
want to say that's true
and then after loco week I sort of tried
the outside approach Monte was before
right for CLG yeah technically Monty was
the first oh yeah that's true
um yeah like Monte loco area I still
think in order to coach a team like this
you have to be on-site but yeah I guess
that's fair I mean you like Marc you
know like there's no way you can like
remote coaching is just way too hard
I assume social dynamics that you will
never get told about if you're not there
to witness them yeah I'm like as the
coach you need to be able to fix those
and it's just like yeah you have to be
there yeah like a TSN we went through
loco and then the next plan was we're
gonna get like a two-man system where
one person works on just everything
outside of the game which was supposed
to be Casey and then we got charged I
think both were not necessarily
qualified for their positions when we
hired them so that's kind of where I was
a stopgap and then I recognized that
when I started coaching I was super
deficient at recognizing like a lot of
dynamics in terms of how to build habits
how to recognize parts of communication
that's actually two things that Wheldon
really helped me with when he joined the
team in 20 end of 2016 that I did better
at 2017 but then I do think that last
world's I hit like a plat I basically
hit a plateau in which case in which I
don't think I could influence the team
faster than the other coaches who had
higher base knowledge than I did if that
makes sense
yeah and his part in TSM right now
what is Andy's I don't even know why
you're asking well I like what is like
role and he is the CEO of the company he
doesn't he actually hasn't outside of
being to the LCS games he actually has
an interact with the team very much he
wanted this year to be like the year
where he takes a step back he assembled
the roster and the staff that we were
looking for and yeah outside of like
going to LCS games and cheering the team
on and cursing very loudly when we lost
I don't think Andy's been involved at
all so there there's a couple things in
twitch chat and like one of the call a
couple of calls
and asking some questions similar to
this so we might actually end up having
to jump callers pretty quickly but one
somebody's asking why is it why is it
coaching to know matchups if that's
gonna be a player responsibility thing
and my opinion on it is like the coach
helps the players see the big picture
and if you don't understand the matchup
you're not gonna be able to like help
get the team aligned at all because it's
like yeah we'll just play GPA R and
it'll be fine but if you don't
understand you know that your top laner
is gonna need pressure at points or
maybe need help if he's struggling them
at like just knowing the matchups that
you can help inform the rest of the team
how that matchups gonna go is really
important so you need to be able to
understand mattress but it's not
necessarily like this is exactly how you
play it and these are the good counter
picks and like that situation that you
need to be able to work with the player
that's my take on it even if you don't
understand matchups you either you need
to know enough to contextualize the
information the players tell you like
the players can be like oh I can win
this matchup like 90% of the time and
then you watch the games and you're like
oh that's not necessarily true and you
have to distinguish between like the
player being overconfident versus the
player like actually being accurate not
going right in a particular screen
because x y&z things happened so you
definitely need enough knowledge to it
be able to form a context around the
information that's there Niraj cool hey
I want to thank you so much for calling
in thick gravy I really appreciate all
the way from Japan thank you thank you
for coming on the show thanks moving on
to the next caller really quickly we've
got Missoula subbed the Ross Geller
Kaito subbed a tale Rachel sent a
hundred bits Thank You Rachel Rachel is
one of the founders of a tale I am
wearing their hoodie right now on stream
you guys can check him out they're a
friend of mine they do cool stuff they
did sponsor two of my videos but this is
not a sponsored show by them but the
hoodie is very comfortable mark bullies
his way into one kind of hey mark x.18
2ss is on the show
what do you where you calling from excel
I'm fine
from San Jose California from San Jose
California a little closer than Tokyo
well San Jose cold but good cold but
good ok what do you want to talk about
on the show today
I want to talk a sparse especially after
world's 2017 if you get what you want
you got you got a lot of heat from
reddit and Twitter and social media in
general personally I feel a lot of it
was a non unfair but I was curious have
you ever gotten any pop not positive but
any feedback that you actually used with
the team and with yourself and with the
organization overall I don't understand
the question he was asking like has read
it ever actually been a useful source of
feedback where you're like oh that might
be a problem or oh that's an interesting
stat or something like that I think you
kind of touched on the last last caller
but all's curious if you have like
specific examples the only one example
that pops into my head was when Bruin
clave Ezreal first became a thing that's
like someone made a post about it I
looked it up in like holy shit like
message burek and he's like holy shit
and then we spam the shit out of it that
weed can we played it both games that
weekend what now we won 1 loss they won
one yeah barely won one which was it
later than that you had that by game
with Israel that was the second game I
think ok because I remember watching
that that weeks to TSM legends and I
remember screaming you guys that fucking
week and it was just the most obnoxious
bullshit every that champion with that
item was obnoxious bullshit yeah they're
so funny what what is a general
relationship with reddit do you ever
tell the players not to read it like if
they're having a sump uh the younger
players like I'll tell Mike sometimes to
keep offered it because he when he first
joined but all the other players are
sort of mature enough to know what their
relationship with read it's gonna be
like and so I don't really touch it very
much what is your relationship with read
it I read it on occasion but it's never
like a very defining relationship in any
way ok it's like even on Twitter I have
like
that thing where I only get
notifications from people I follow okay
so are you aware of any other situations
where some sort of strategy or you know
reddit has caused some sort of spark it
to happen in the League of Legends space
I mean I've found like Randy interesting
tidbits on reddit before like so one
thing I would recommend is that ignore
like the main reddit if you want to
learn a champion at like a somewhat high
level I would recommend going to like
that specific champions subreddit and
they usually have like interesting or
cool tips or like advanced common combos
or stuff you can do so that is something
that I can alright there's like rengar
mains can't recommend players to go to I
actually I'm trying to learn Caitlyn
right now and I went there and I learned
the tricks about having the traps behind
the towers yeah and I was just catching
people left and right like I went from I
really like them all below 20% when
right so now I'm at a 55% of I'm right
with her just just off that alone cuz
people don't look and they're dumb it's
just free damage enjoy it enjoy well you
can that I'm sad about that but
hopefully she won't get dirty bad or I
can just go back to jinx or MF because
they're good for the climb yeah I think
sometimes you see it's not necessarily
always the most applicable information
but I found out like someone on reddit
pretty often does like a weird like
detailed analysis on some point that's
interesting to me so like I remember
back in curse at one point sounded like
some thing about gold graphs and like we
actually had like a really insane
first 15 minutes of the game or
something or I figure what it was but
something was interesting about our team
that like I didn't know and it was
interesting about other teams and like
where their strengths were and this was
back before like Oracle's elixir was the
site and stuff like that so there
weren't that many like gold information
things yeah I actually have all so I
only super got into
competitively because we ran like a
third party fantasy league and so I just
had like spreadsheets of all of the shit
before I joined I emailed riot in 2014
like this twenty five page paper on why
riot should make a fantasy league and I
like talked to chopper and Waylon I
think about it and then they never told
me they just asked me very specific
questions and then two weeks later they
released like the but the fantasy beta
so if that's the case I need to thank
you cuz for the past three splits I won
dinner off my friends because of that
nice because I haven't been winning
early so thank you for the free steaks
you're awesome hey thanks so much Excel
for calling in I think all kinda shut
out real quick okay okay I'm in my HP oh
hey that's great thank you for this
that's a great show that thank you
Partha I just remembered thinking back
well like the old season four days dylan
joined before you right yeah and then it
was really funny because it seemed like
local liked you more because he always
included you interested on social media
was there a weird social dynamic between
the three of you I don't know this is
too personal a question um I don't know
maybe a little but I never thought of it
that way
cuz the reason I went down to cuz I was
supposed to be only be online right the
reason I went to LA for the first time
was because I was interviewing with
SpaceX and so I just asked look oh can I
come like washrooms for a day and he's
like oh just hang out here for like X
period of time and so that's the only
reason why I even got to meet like loco
and the team at all any more impressed
by the SpaceX facility or the TSM house
I didn't uh TSM house was something that
was like back in like the old days where
like Dyer Santorin look would be sharing
like one of the master rooms yeah what's
the weirdest like living situation that
you've had
put up with Duty eSports OS is easy I so
at one point Santorin moved to a
different room so when I moved in I
initially for like two weeks shared a
room with loco and dire so it's like a
giant room there's like enough room for
all of us at night I swear to god
dyerson loca both sleep talk and Dyess
is very aggressive like I just woke up
one night to dyrus like Wallace leaves
saying I'm gonna fucking kill you I'm
gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you
so that was terrifying and the second
one was one time I woke up where dyerson
look were both sleep but they were
talking to each other so yeah that was
probably my weirdest eSports moment damn
I later found out that a lot of people
from season 4 TSM actually had like
weird things they did while asleep
turtle did it to like heat
turtle used to sleepwalk so yeah yeah we
have anything like that we just have
like weirder setups but not as
interesting actual any story the only
reason why I ended up hanging out with
double F which was because I went to
interview at NASA and then went to the
Cheesecake Factory afterwards the meta
you know funny that's not what happened
I mean do you even have a degree Travis
we should move on to the next color
Cena sub thank you so much to see and
watch vs reset for six months pretty
great pretty great
subs great to get those subs and you
guys are fantastic people part hi how's
things going I went to have you been to
a destroyer before I'm sorry but not
have you been to destroyer it is a well
I I have not I'd why would anyone called
call a restaurant the destroyer it's
just called destroyer oh my god you'd
fuck that place is it the one that you
tweeted out yeah as fellows he took me
there anything that seems like food that
my food eats it was so there was burrata
in that bowl at the bottom and
and in mushroom and like that was just
like the top of it but it's it was a
really a any place it's like all of its
like you feel so underprepared in some
sense where it's like here's the food I
put something on it now eat it you know
yeah yeah I'm not I'll pass on that one
though thank you so much someone someone
took me there it's like a one of those
it's like yeah you know maybe we can
work out a deal where we work on
something and it's kind of like that's
where they took me and that's just like
order how do I not act gross now it was
so awkward
I think True Food Kitchen is like my
limit of normal yeah I know it's good
but it's like it's more health focused
oh yeah your health focus yeah that is
the limit of my health focus Thanks
all right well we've got I'm also mark
on the show right now I'm also mark
how's it going I'm doing pretty well
just studying for finals it's kind of
late over here nice where are you
calling from
I'm calling in from State College
Pennsylvania Pennsylvania all right well
what do you got for us tonight um well I
think overall coaching and like League
of Legends still hasn't fully matured
especially in like the western scene and
I feel like teams especially when like
franchising just started don't really
know what they want from coaches yet and
I think this is why you see a lot of
like returning names and kind of the old
guard coaches like loco like just kind
of staying around and I think it's kind
of also caused in a like a bloating and
the amount of coaching staff that per
team you see a lot more analysts or
other more like fringe niche people in
the coaching staff well sorry what was
the question
not used to this show sometimes people
just come in and they think something
that's ideal you could be we prefer as
people are just like oh and there's
recycled Talent they all suck balls okay
I think this is a part where you told me
I'm wrong I mean technically you're
right but what's the alternative like
are you gonna to put together like an
incredible
Oh team and then just bet it all on like
a rookie coach no but I feel like I feel
like focusing I feel like a lot of teams
are not bringing like Korean coaches I
think like what team was that that had
rapidstar now I think it's like a frolic
with yeah like West's rapidstar c9
famously brought in like reapered you
guys have saw now and Kane is the first
Korean coach who is one na yeah I feel
like it's just a weird approach to
coaching where you have you bring in
these Korean coaches who don't know the
culture they don't speak the language
and then they have a lot of game
knowledge but the communication is kind
of lacking between the coach and the
player and then I don't feel like you
really need to teach players more game
knowledge I feel like coaches should
just be like facilitators where they
help the players kind of form more
robust ways of thinking about the game
rather than kind of teaching them the
game because if you have to teach a
player the game I feel like you should
just find a different player well it's
it's a mixed bag right like every team
is gonna need a different type of coach
like say a team like golden Guardians
who as hunter said yesterday is like a
very development focused org and they do
want to work with a lot of rookies it
makes sense to have like an experienced
coach with a lot of game knowledge to
help train them in aspects of their role
whereas if you have a team like the
current teal where all five players are
like veterans who've been playing around
for like multiple years you don't
necessarily need that so there is like a
middle ground just depends on like the
players that you have there's some teams
where they have clear like leadership
roles within the team like say a team
has someone like hi or Peter or bjergsen
you don't necessarily need someone who's
like authoritative and needs to be that
kind of person whereas if you have like
a more calm our team like when we think
maybe clutch clutch is a team where I
don't think anyone has like a very like
loud personality you could do with a
coach who can help like lead setter
direction so I think every team has like
a different dynamic and it just depends
on the org whether or not you want to
build your
roster and then bring in a coach or have
a coach that you trust and that you
build a roster around because if you
look at examples
CLG is a team where the entire like
their roster for the last two and a half
years has been built around Tony and the
environment and the structure that he
wants to set whereas there are other
teams who always like get who believe in
like certain players and build the rest
around them and they add the coach so I
think every org right now does it very
uniquely but I do think at some point
it'll get to where every org has a
philosophy that they're comfortable with
and they know what kind of coach and
like Ross that they have and you'll see
a lot more longevity in that space but
right now I think it's a pretty mixed
bag of what or every org wants to do but
para reddit reddit told me that you need
a coach who's kind of 1v9 and tell them
all exactly what to do and get everyone
on the exact same page and be a leader
and all that what do you what are you
telling me that someone doesn't need to
do that sometimes
yeck I don't think any coach can or will
ever 189 there's like few instances but
I don't I don't think I don't think
coaches had have made or broken okay I
guess I can make that statement because
I also don't know like the intricacies
of what other coaches do but I think the
impact of coaches is very unknown right
now I'll put it that way what do you
think about coma
do you think he was close to like based
off what you've read and maybe if you've
had any inside information like do you
think coma is someone who is close to
one v9x I think the community sometimes
thinks of him that way I don't know
anything about coma I've read some about
him and then I also the one thing I do
know about coma I was like he always
like he's super chill when he's outside
of the school room like every time I've
seen coma he's like grabbing a drink
with like impact or something or like
he's super jovial as a character so I
can never see him like in that like
break out the belt mean but I'm sure it
might exist to an extent
what do you think of six law just like
between us I think he's really cool I
think he is he's cool
but he sucks yeah so and I should Dylan
will back me up on this and 2016 9 th
not 2016 2015 every time we we would
prep like draft scenarios we would
always have like 20 or 30 year some
amount that we were going and with like
his base and there'd be like 1 or 2 we
would always highlight being like this
is the worst case scenario
tony was the one coach would
consistently like find that one scenario
on stage against us so so you love Tony
yeah I'm in love with Tony exactly no no
I think Tony is one of the few coaches
that I think deserves to win and na
coaches foot award but hasn't doesn't
validate not winning it though because
if you think other people haven't
deserved it and they've won it then it's
almost better that he doesn't also get
thrown in that same category he'll just
always beyond that there's another in
fact well if enough coaches stay the
same they're the new thing about na LCS
is no coach has won the coach the split
award twice I think that's true so at
some point it'll get to Tony yeah well I
mean there's some weird ones right like
guys Chris want it right ok I thought
everyone's really technically you didn't
win it once cuz well that was cuz that
was no no the split that CLG one Peter
wanted cuz T all ended up first in the
regular season oh yeah yeah yeah that's
right yeah mmhmm yeah no no coach is won
it twice in na so eventually I'll get to
Tony Riedel says Tony is Leonardo
DiCaprio yeah but Leo won one eventually
yeah so for the remnant yeah I mean that
movie was Jesus too long
that was just like such a like grow a
beard roll round the mud act distressed
you'll get an awesome like I don't know
yes better work it was sad it that's
what won it
hey I'm also mark you're still here do
you well I guess I had like two more
questions I think one can get answered a
little quickly
it was just wondering do you think like
you'll see like a homogenizing of
coaches relah become like more similar
to each other as the league the league
gets older or do you think you'll still
see like this split where different
teams want different types of coaches I
don't tell my personally don't think
you'll see that because one thing about
coaches and traditional sports that I
think actually draws them closer
together is you have more people so like
you have benches and all this other
stuff there's like rotations of players
that you swap in and out and with League
it's like there's five core guys that
you want to work with non-stop and then
like the coach and like those six people
because they work so much tighter
together need to find a solution that
works for them and that one it very
where's like when you have 30 or 20
players for 25 whatever the number is 50
if you're on the if you're on football
like you have a larger separation
because you are less intertwined with
any individual person whereas the low
player count means that the coach works
much closer in proximity then and any
other like traditional sports comparison
I think it's more like a it's more like
a golf coach in that way we're like golf
caddie / coaches all perform like really
different functions for it for like
their golf for my understanding at least
I should probably not talk too much
about go I was I was also just wondering
do you think you kind of see like a
slimming down of like the overall
coaching staff as the league gets older
because I feel like now there's just a
lot of kind of I don't say unnecessary
people but I feel like there's a lot of
like jobs that have been split into two
jobs like I feel like one person could
do some of the jobs that
multiple people are doing now in the
scene while that's a little bit true
every team and org is still trying to
figure like no staff member stays with
you forever right
so say you have like your coach and
assistant coach and that's all you
technically need you can't really rely
on either of them sticking around for
like ever and even analyst that you end
up getting you have to sort of have
backups and more and so every split you
have to have like one or two analysts
even though you're not using them fully
to at least be training so in case
something happens or if they end up
specializing or in some case you just
need to have more than just like the two
people even though you might not
necessarily need them entirely yeah I
think that Tony will eventually leave
CLG I don't know you can ask Tony I'm
sure he's in discord discord he always
hides from the discord but he's in
twitch chat I mean okay I don't think
I've necessarily agree with like your
premise that the coaching staffs are
bloating necessarily because I think
having a man coach and assistant coach
is very very important because it gives
like a dynamic for them to bounce off
each other where sometimes if you just
have one coach you can probably feel
pretty bad and then like there's
analysts and you can break those out
into a lot of different roles when you
really come down to like scouting other
regions scouting teams within your own
region there's people who are gonna kind
of be doing your front work for your own
team about like track this stuff in
scrims and then you can also look at
positional coaches and maybe those
people need more game knowledge
experience and so you can end up with a
if you find the right people I think a
pretty robust coaching staff and I don't
think every team is there yet so I don't
I don't think I'm ready to call it
bloating yet yeah exactly I would really
like to know your answer about if Tony's
gonna leave CLG in the future he's a
Twitter chat right now y'all he's like
what do you think first if Tony's ever
gonna leave CLG yeah I don't know are
you Tony
good you can message me
finally well poaching alright so it kind
of wrapped up the bloating conversation
I guess or about about teens being
bloated now thank you so much I'm also
mark yeah thanks for having me yeah
appreciate all right moving on to the
next caller would like to twitch chat I
would like to give a shout out to
Shitler 9 boba Kohler gifted they
subdivide all Bloggie O&M public Allah
gives us up to Nick Allen and to new in
397 subbed as well so thank you
everybody
also it is the last day of the month to
hit up patreon I'm gonna be doing an AMA
for the higher sub tier for the other
thing too is if you have previously sub
or patronized Travis now you should go
and undo it in case you for ya because
earlier I tweeted like it was the last
day to sub to my patreon and somebody
just the only thing that happened was
somebody took away their subs so they
remembered that they were about to get
charged and canceled it so I'm down on
the day but I mean I'm gonna be doing an
AMA for people on the patreon finding
peace is here how's it going finding
peace where you calling from
I'm calling from Daytona Beach Florida
Daytona Beach Florida don't they have a
like a race I happens there yeah the
Daytona 500 yeah nice
alright see I know I know about your
sitting when expert really is there what
do you want to talk about all the show
tonight I wanted to talk about kind of
the problems with teams and how they go
to fix about problems and I guess my
question is if problems are so obvious
to a lot of analysts especially on the
analyst desks and people like Mark and
parth how come teams aren't improving at
such faster rates than they are and I
know we don't know that the things that
go on behind the scenes and the internal
problems because a lot of it is you know
within the team itself but if the
problems are so consistent over weeks
then how come if it's so obvious to
everyone else that teams are
moving faster that's a very complicated
question I'll just use an example so one
of the big issues that he hasn't had
last year was that and i think dennis
got too much flack for this which was
they said that dennis wasn't he was too
aggressive but also indecisive he didn't
like have an impact in the early game
and so the real reason behind that
problem the problem was that dennis was
being influenced by factors that weren't
necessarily his fault
for example we would have an early game
we basically had like level ones planned
for like a different a bunch of
different setups and then early game
plans in terms of what we wanted to do
for our team comp to function against
like the one they had but I think Kevin
hunter and doublelift both had like a
very like a similar play style or
approach to the way that they played and
so the more stress or pressure that got
put on them the more they sort of went
back to like this one system and so
example at Worlds Dennis at least in the
practice Dennis ended up just bouncing
between concert and Peter like concert
would take a trade and be like Oh Dennis
I need you to cover me just drop like
that one camp and come cover me and then
Dennis would go cover I mean Dennis be
like ok I just covered for Kevin he got
his base off he's gonna come back on the
map
I need to go jungle down and take all
these camps before I can do anything
else so we'll take dragon in like two or
three minutes and then by the time
Dennis has done like taking one camp or
two camp
Peter and Vinson would like get into
like some weird trade or something would
happen out that's out of their control
and Dennis would be forced down there
and so in many cases Dennis was forced
to like Dennis wasn't very authoritative
in terms of what he wanted to do and
that was more for a personality thing
and not necessarily like something that
we even though we tried to fix and help
him help gave him like what help give
him like ideas or ways that could
influence and adapt or change on the
spot those were just built through
experience and
it took it had to have been the entire
team who had to recognize this as an
issue and each solved like their own
individual problems in solving it and so
the small the overarching problem that
red said was Dennis didn't do anything
in the early game kaien came down to
like a very like complicated situation
of how what our plan was in the early
game how the early game went what like
weird things happened in the side lanes
and how they expected Dennis to react to
it and that entire pressure is something
that Dennis neither Dennis nor the
players could really do for each other
and that's one system in which it was
hard to see from the outside but it's
super complicated on the inside to fix
yeah and like I think there's a lot of
situations with players we're forgetting
skill right because it's like that's
another thing too it's like some players
you get in mismatches and they can't
quite like play the match of how they're
playing whereas somebody else they got I
think bjergsen is a player who was kind
of notorious for doing this to people
we're like you play the match up versus
the rest especially back in the day
before I think I thinkwell their million
took a lot to be Ericsson but like in
season four like in season five like you
would play somebody and you play this
match up and go fine then you play beer
and he would dick you and then like
whatever else problems that you have on
your team are suddenly like exacerbated
and so like forgetting that there's
skill gaps in the league as well like a
lot of the problems go back to like play
style and decision-making and who people
are like more on a fundamental level
than just League of Legends like a
player who is aggressive in tailing
those tendencies to teach them when to
play safe and like how to shift their
mindset and like that kind of stuff is a
lot more difficult than just being like
you died here by being pushed too far up
stop doing that because you it's like a
more root problem than just that it's
like how they think as a player and it's
the opposite sure as well like you're
not playing aggressive enough when you
could have pushed this lead harder you
you didn't really do it and then like
this is a matchup that we picked you to
win it's Jake's versus this and you
played a little scared and now we don't
have Ally where we thought we'd have a
lead and like those those problems can
be much deeper than just game knowledge
and those are hard to fix I think
I actually totally get that but I guess
what makes me the most curious about it
is when those issues get pointed out
like hey you weren't aggressive enough
in early in the early game since Karen
for example so it would that not be
something you would bring back to scrims
through the week you would work on it
entirely through the week like hey you
know we just noticed that you should be
doing this better you could be doing
this better or you just need to focus on
being this type of style during the week
during scrims and during practice and
then the next week you know you just
have the same problem over again but
that does that like not play a factor
and it still comes back to how you are
like as a player like mentality wise or
well so like that example you just gave
is is not actionable right like when
when you give feedback to a player needs
to be actionable like be more aggressive
like what the fuck does that really mean
you know like you need to find out what
that really means as well as handling
the social dynamics of it like what
parth was saying a lot of that problem
was like how their players interact with
each other never mind what's fens
individual problems are with it like if
it it's very complex situations that
lead to pretty binary outlooking outputs
where it's like you die too much on
invades it's a call right but like that
can that can be to a lot of like maybe
rewarding is not good enough and it's
because these things and someone doesn't
do the right thing on the topside like
there is it's a very complex game I
think that looks a certain way like
player dies bad play but like an
uncountable number of things can lead to
that situation yeah so is it more like
ghost hunting to find the root of a
problem then or is there like some kind
of basis we call I mean you you know
like you said it could be any reasons
why you're doing it maybe reward it's
not good enough maybe you're pathing
isn't the smartest but then are you not
just go sunny to find a reason is that
why it maybe is taking a little longer
to improve on certain areas what do you
mean ghost hunting like are you just
kind of burning around doing random
things I mean what you're saying is what
you're basically saying is that there's
only one problem and you need to you
have an entire week to address it but
that's not true at the end of the week
you have to like I didn't if I okay the
next week's come in here start of next
week's opponents here's how we're going
to change up like here's the priorities
that in the Chan
we're gonna increase and decrease here's
like the goals that we need to set both
team wide and individually for each
player that we need to improve on
because it's not like one problem for
one person that's persistent it's like
all five players have multiple problems
and the team has multiple issues that
you need to resolve during that week
it's not like you can just spend the
entire week trying to fix one thing and
it'll like make your team drastically
better so it kind of does get diminished
a little bit because you're like you are
trying to fix a lot of other issues
one example is like and no one like
really saw this but in 2016 when like
TSM was winning a lot we actually
created a lot of bad habits in terms of
with players because they would play a
lot of super aggressive and not get
really punished for it and so we had to
make a conscious decision to basically
change our playstyle in order for it to
be more comprehensive and so one of the
things that we were criticised against
in our when we won against CLG in the
semis of 2016 summer was that we had
like us five to six K gold lead but we
were playing basically we were playing
in a way that we thought that would
maximize our chance of winning but
everyone else who saw the game said that
Oh TSM is being super indecisive about
winning this game they must be nervous
or squit scared and so the things that
you see that our problems and vice versa
there's a lot of things underneath the
surface that all teams and all players
and all staff members are working on and
just because you see a problem it might
not even be like the biggest problem
that everyone else in the team sees yeah
and that's on top of the fact that like
the games changing too so like you don't
just get to sit in a vacuum and fix
people you have to address like well
holy shit I didn't know Sion did that
and that's like another problem like
what do we do with Sion strapped
strategically I think those are issues
that you need to talk over as a team
because there's a finite number of
resources and now instead of just fixing
the fact that one player isn't
aggressive enough or something it's like
there's
whole new champion that's out where does
this affect everyone's priorities
because now we're changing our bands up
and that means these metrics are open
and you have to there's a finite amount
of time to work on all this stuff
so then I guess I would ask specifically
do you mark since you have been an
analyst in both on a team and on the
desk how much of that do you really take
from the analyst desk when you're
working with the team like well I'm sure
you watch and you see what they what
they might say but do you actually take
anything or is it just kind of like we
know what we're doing in the background
and just kind of focus on that ah I was
like I think like you hear a lot of
analysts say like when they watch the
games back they usually mute the casters
and it's usually because like the
casters don't know what the
communication was and so you know like
someone dies for some reason and like
you have no idea what what the
communication was on the team and so it
almost doesn't matter and like him when
I was you know starting out they didn't
have like the voice comes live and stuff
like that and analyst desk is the same
thing like you know sometimes they can
point out some interesting stuff but I
don't think you'll get significantly
more about it's fine to listen to like I
know a lot of tea and we did it to like
they would come back from their game you
know it's the end of the game it doesn't
matter anymore it's it's over especially
the best one and like sometimes he was
just sitting listening like what the
analysts desk is saying just just to
like process it but it's it's not
necessarily something where you're like
I don't think anyone is super absorbed
into what the analyst desk is saying on
the team side I don't know if parth ever
felt different I think the purpose of
like the analyst desk and the casters is
to make the game entertaining for the
audience and give reasons why things are
happening and those reasons I think by
and large aren't necessarily correct or
like complete opinions and so if you are
from a team you're never going to go
back and look at their opinions or what
they're saying because they're catering
to a completely different audience than
what you're trying to do so Mark's wrong
so when I'm watching the analysts desk
mark just always talking about that's
that's why I take away no it's just not
what
mark rightly does not have the complete
picture yeah so what that's what I'm
gonna tell him whenever he makes a
statement in the future and I really
Clark well you didn't have the complete
picture exactly but I mean like his
audience is like the people watching and
not us yeah right and like what's your
point what you're trying to get out of
it is very different cuz because like a
lot of what you do on the analyst desk
is more narrative storytelling about
like how things are stacking up in the
league than like let's run through every
scenario that could have resulted in
that death that we probably won't even
know anyways so it's like you know to
use an example that I talked a lot about
I think a fair amount at least over the
course of Hotline League was like all
tech and how good is all tech in this
kind of stuff in it I feel like we
touched on it a lot and like the reality
is I really don't know what's going on
in echo fox that's resulting in the
output that we've been talking about but
the end of the day as an analyst is my
job to say I don't think you know or
give my opinion on what the performance
is yeah yeah all right thank you so much
funny piece for coming on the show thank
you and big fans of all three of you
appreciate it thank you so much all
right
we've just got a couple more colors to
get through in the next 15 or so minutes
do you want to say thank you to Aussie
fur / you Icarus you curious really hard
to pronounce CG shadow as well for
resolving all those all those folks subs
thank you so much how are you doing
parts how you hanging in there okay yeah
you actually remembered a funny story do
remember I tweeted at one point if
something super annoys me I'll just like
provide a rage thing and then won't say
yes parts over that was he's told me
this before too whenever something is
frustrating him like something riots
doing our team or its community
perception he writes a long rant about
it and then he's like maybe I'll post
this one and then eventually he just
deletes it yeah well actually no I don't
delete it I have them all just never
published one of them was actually when
they did the original ad carry tearless
like way back when this is like keith
was tenth or something which first of
all is beat here yeah I think it might
have been that one
I think I might have been there for the
first one or well it depends how long
ago cuz there was I think they did to
your looks like way way back I did one
where I put Keith's tenth and we had
like trending and like I put looking to
go down from ten up so I don't know if
it was the net one okay so I am like as
much as I hate it it's like okay
it clearly draws in the audience and
creates discussion but then someone like
Keith was doing an interview and one of
the casters asked him how he felt about
his placement on the tier list and I I
was so fucking angry like I wanted keys
to just say it's because you guys are
fucking dumb don't ask me the questions
like this because it's like super super
disrespectful to like pro players when
there's like oh I'm putting in 14 hours
a day and I'm trying to improve and I
think my skill level is X and I'm not
getting like I have like a bunch of
reasons why I am performing a certain
way and now this idiot caster who
doesn't know anything that's going on is
asking me about my placement on his shit
tier list Jesus I was so angry then and
I'm still angry now just thinking about
it
why don't you probably hell what why
don't you publish it and I wrote it out
it took me a while I was like on a
flight I think somewhere I like wrote
the entire thing and then I was just
sitting somewhere so yeah so I actually
remember that that interview because I
think you know James James and I will
usually tossed interviews or will get
the toss to us and that was that was
like that was a yikes moment yeah cuz I
remember that one right I think like who
the caster was but I think they like
were they asked a similar question two
times in a row - and she's like super
awkward yeah because here's the thing
like probe the one thing people will
never understand is pro players and
coaches and staff will never ever ever
like defend themselves publicly because
in any way that they defend themselves
lose you are like throwing someone else
in the order of the team under the bus
and so
like they just don't have that luxury
what if they can never go ahead no they
just can't what if I asked Peter about I
think I asked about the time about him
getting placed bead tear on Freaks list
like that that's probably okay right
that's because that's giving him an
opportunity to like get back whatever it
like depends on like the context in
which you do it you and Peter fans and
you doing and jokingly and Peter's not
someone who is gonna like like he knows
that his placement was like no one
believes in it and it's garbage whereas
like the context in width Keats was done
it was entirely different I think it
also depends to you like how it's being
done
is pretty important so like I think if
you're like me mning it up like oh yeah
you supposed to your beats here like
you're going up against this guy who's
way higher than you in the tearless kind
of like joking way but if you're like
actually like asking them about their
placement that's it's yet it's weird
like you published it first because
that's like you you ranting about it and
writing it up on a plane it's never
going to affect change this feels like
the type of conversation we'd have over
one of our dinners but like I mean I'll
just I'll just reach out to the people
who annoyed me and like message did you
I don't think I did in that instance but
I don't know why it's not to you like
hey two years ago you interviewed but uh
but like it's you never ever like but I
don't think casters should ever put like
entertainment over the integrity or the
competitiveness of the players or the
game if it ever crosses boundaries or
one becomes more important than the
other I think there's a big problem was
I mean what sorry can you clarify how
I'm not saying I disagree I'm just why
would that be an integrity or a
competitiveness issue horse all you'd
like sorry it not uh I don't know it's
just like it shows a really lack of
respect for like what the players do and
put it up yeah it's like his point is
like if you it's one thing to like call
a player bag because you think they're
bad
another thing to like actually be
disrespectful to that person and that's
not cool I think it's a part the saying
cuz it's no longer about like this guy's
busting his balls and this you know
coming up short and it's like what an
idiot like or something and it's not the
same thing it's one of those things like
now a bunch of teams are going to MSI
and naturally not every team is going to
do well and instead of celebrating this
team that went to MSI the team that say
gets fourth or fifth or doesn't make it
out of groups is going to get fucking
memed for being like super shit and like
disrespect in their region instead of
being like oh we are this is the best
team in our region and we should like
root for them and respect like all the
work and effort they put in like I'm not
a big fan of t/l during the split
because I'm obviously like competing
against them but they are representing
us at this international tournament and
regardless of what what the result is
like they are the best that we have in
our region to offer and yeah I just
think that kind of gets lost a lot hey
yellow sub is on the show yellow sub
were you calling holy shit that wasn't
his question no it was an ask a question
the other service that's been sitting
here silently entire time I don't like
to call attention to that because then
YouTube leaves comments like why
wouldn't you get so awkward when they're
just yellow so where are you calling
from
hey I'm coming from Austin Austin I was
I I fuckin love Austin like if I had to
live in Texas you know because I was
forced to I would definitely pick Austin
yeah it's a great place a lot of gaming
stuff recently saw Greg Fox he got a
dream back yeah cool I had I had a
really good time I saw myself I still
have a vlog any to publish from from
there it's half built on a timeline and
premiere what do you want to talk about
it actually kind of deals with MSI so I
have the I guess aggressive TSM flame
statement I think so what I think is
that is I'm not making em aside this
year is a good thing for na because I
believe that TSM has a major coaching /
management issue that has persisted
throughout each season that prevents
them from internationals
excess and I believe that there needs to
be serious change at the top level for
tsm's coaching / management if they want
to make their goal of winning worlds to
be come a reality alright so here's the
part was like alright I need to prep
myself for the Flav's of the hatred I
was like no no tonight it's gonna be
fine then you call out and come in and
say this all right well I think the
first thing to do is say like what what
is this is because it's just saying that
there's an issue is sure sure so I like
the classic like redditor armchair and
yes that's what the show is don't worry
that's that's what everyone knows the
the issue is that kiss I'm more than any
other North American organization has
received the most amount of
international opportunities and I think
barring 2014 worlds group right they
made it to quarters the every other not
not like I am or rivals I'm not counting
those I'm only counting Emma Sian worlds
to be fair I think that they have not
performed well so that's why I'm saying
I think there's some sort of issue that
continually prevents them from
international success that I believe is
at a top level coaching / management
issue okay but you I mean how do you
identify that is a sorry all at parts we
rebuttal on here is this the only the
only thing it's kind of weird as you
said like there is an issue but you
haven't sort of it's kind it's it's kind
of like diagnosing a problem without
really saying the symptoms I guess is
what Travis is saying cuz it's like sure
they've underperformed you could argue
at international competition but you
haven't said why that's the management's
fault I guess so I think it's because
like they like ultimately the TSM
organization has received an abundance
of opportunities to compete
internationally and I think they're the
only consistent thing right that has
been to those international events but
has still squandered it right like the
players have changed and so Europe
you're upset that despite the changes
we've had we've gone to international
tournaments x times but haven't shown
results yeah I guess that's a that's a
way to say it sure
okay so then why don't other orgs just
be better well so like sure I mean
that's that's fair like I even read the
geography this year and they have now
the opportunity to represent us in a or
us at MSI so I guess my a rebuttal would
be to that when TSM gets first place in
the region and they go to Worlds but
Seon is the only NH team to make it out
even though they're like second or third
they're not the first seeded team it
still is it's just a it's baffling why
kiss em weights she's more baffled why
another team in a completely different
group can win one or two extra best of
ones that's what's baffling to you well
I don't I wouldn't say it's just
something you literally just said that
you literally just said it is baffling
to me that another team in a completely
different group and accidentally won an
extra best of one I mean that's not the
shirt I guess that you can say you can
say like that shirt that's a logic
problem that's not like a TSM management
problem I think the major thing though
is that especially at this last year's
group stages
I think definitively TSM had the easiest
group but they still didn't make it out
really how was a definitive explained it
to me I think compared to the groups
that both immortals and c9 had that they
couldn't make it out of that I don't
know what was to me again you just said
you're just so me there were three
different groups and I believe that a
group was better than beef why was the
other group better okay so group a let
me up here let me pull it up just to
make sure
Group A was SKT EDG c9 and a HQ group
was immortals fnatic King zone or
whatever the fuck they were called
before and then gig Marines and then
Group D was TSM with flash wolves are
theorem bo2 i/o sliders world-leading
misfits misfits Astrid I think out of
the like aggregate of that think he's
like TSM God I think the like second
seeded China team in the third seeded
European team is that ordered the second
seeded European Tama is what I was
aha and then in Group B immortals had
first place create I think that's an
obvious given and then fnatic was the
third place European team okay my first
question is do you think the seating in
two groups Acura accurately represents
their skill limit no no I don't think
that okay so you can't use that argument
but I think it ok sure it doesn't
accurately represent it
but the point I'm saying is that's not
that's not really what I was writing it
up but the point of trans day is that I
still think that grouping could be we're
harder than group de yeah but again you
have shown me no credible evidence why
that is the case okay so I guess then
yes right it might have told you that
they were easier groups or hard groups
but until you definitely show me proof
that they were better or worse how can
you connect that claim okay I guess
that's fair I don't know how to prove to
you so then let's come to the conclusion
that the groups were within reason
pretty similar because I do think that
misfits took SKT to almost five games
and had the chance of winning and unless
you're calling SKT airship team and I
think W it was also pretty credible
yeah and they did pull out really good
strategies during their run
sure okay okay they were reasonably good
teams okay and it was best of once
okay so again explained to me how it's
baffling that groups that were
relatively even and it was best of one
it's baffling that sea lion might have
won an extra best one okay but I thought
you me through this all right I that's
not the part is baffling the parisa was
baffling no that's exactly what you said
it was baffling no I didn't say it was
just for this world's I meant for the
entirety of their international I guess
showings uh-huh that's the part that's
baffling is that they received so many
opportunities but they still come that's
a different argument that's we have gone
to X amount of international tournaments
but we haven't made it further but that
doesn't mean any other team also has
done that sorry what do you he's saying
like if CNI makes it further in one
world you can you can make that like
argument but then the other argument of
TSM always failing is something else
okay if I if I understood it right okay
how about this you write me a paper
email it to me I will read it and I will
respond to you and we can publish it if
you really want I mean like I said I'm
just a reddit or Channel yes I know I'm
not saying that my opinion is
necessarily correct it's not I agree
that's here I mean it's more so just
frustration and I guess here's what I
understand right I agree that fans
should be frustrated at this org we set
out to do something that is incredibly
hard we put in like as much effort as we
can and even the in the off stage in off
season we make the changes that we
believe that is necessary for our team
to do better internationally because I
do think that if we had kept Peter and
if we'd kept the previous roster we
would have won an A and we would have
another shot but we philosophically do
you want to do well at Worlds at some
point regardless of what you want to
believe
and if you're disappointed with our
results that's fine but until you can
show another organization that's done
more or better or has sacrificed as much
as our players and organization and
staff has don't come out with this
bullshit that oh you've disappointed in
us you're disappointed it's just really
garbage hey you little sub I can hook
you up with parse email address after
this if you guys want to continue the
conversation I do appreciate you calling
in but just for the purposes of moving
on because we are starting to run out of
time I'm going to grab the we're gonna
have mark crap with the next caller but
thank you so much for your call sounds
good Oh oh they made it all worth it
made it all worth it
parth just like I'm kind of curious is
that because obviously we were a little
stronger with that guy then with then
I've seen you in the past is this like a
situation where for a long time you've
sort of seen comments like this or
Twitter posts or whatever and it's kind
of like something that's built up with
you
not really yeah I mean it was he called
in and I answered his question sure just
a little bit of a harsher tow that I
think a lot of people were expecting but
that's that's fair let's move on to the
next caller here in just a second Marcus
running off to get him hopefully he has
a less controversial actually I think I
pulled this guy so I think I know his
list yeah strive you're here right now
what what are you where you calling from
Fort Myers Florida from Florida okay so
we had a floor color earlier and you are
twitch sub thank you so much
do you have a light-hearted anecdote or
anything that you'd like to live it up
the show before you you go on yeah hey
part TSM fan so thank you thank you for
everything
basically my topic and it's kind of long
winded so I'll try to shorten it as best
I can cause I know you're running out of
time
I have a few bullet points here so I'll
go through them I think that the nal
should expand the Academy League and
kind of treat it more like how at the
NCAA does with football and not not - I
mean obviously you're gonna pay the
players but - to the extent of kind of
brand building like you talked about
with frost Garen two weeks ago we could
get some of these younger players in
here and they can kind of make a name
for themselves start streaming early
build up a lot of hype around themselves
for like when they will eventually come
into the league I think you could do it
during the offseason so like this brief
period between got I'm sorry my heart's
beating after that last call don't worry
it's d-double a question yeah okay so
basically I kind of get those players
some more exposure you know how golden
Blue has already built up you know a bit
of a following obviously went back to -
Academy but I mean you could start
getting some of this homegrown talent
some more exposure give Marc something
to do in the offseason since he's uh
since he's been born Barnwell well
you're with more after you discuss while
you're going over your notes mark can
you explain a little bit for those
including myself who are unfamiliar with
the NCAA structure or sort of what he's
referencing by having it move to that
structure well I am actually not a
hundred percent sure we time up because
like depending on what support you look
at it they're all different alike I
don't know if he means like can I just
clear but yeah I'm not sure drafting
would be cool to implement I'm sure like
few years down the road but basically
just kind of get them their own league
kind of promoted a little bit more and
you know treat it as like hey these are
the up and comers and so let's say I
have a favorite quarterback that I watch
in college and I get excited to see him
make it in the big leagues and that's
kind of where I'm going with this I do
think that so Academy League I think is
super important for the ecosystem for na
right implemented this year since more
teams have like
since the franchise system more teams
can leverage it and do different things
with it I think every organ of figure
out what they want to use their Academy
system for whether it is to be like a
scrim partner for their main team or
they want to like build like one or two
specific like players or if they
actually want to use like subs for their
LCS team or they want to like have them
completely segregated and even use them
to like farm talent and in terms of and
they are even trying to figure out the
number of resources they want to put
into it so I think this is a discussion
that we can definitely have Ft the end
of this year maybe middle of next year
when all the new orgs who came in who
were still trying to figure out their
main LCS teams and their place in it
have had time to settle down and then
can focus on something like Academy mark
you've been following Academy for a
while do you agree with par statement
that we just kind of like to let it roll
for a little bit until you know the main
LCS League stabilizes a little bit I
mean even yesterday you heard Hunter
talking about they weren't exactly how a
CAD Emilia functions for them either and
so I think before you go around and
tampering an unnecessary tampering but
looking to improve it you should first
understand exactly what you have on your
hands I'm not sure he's quite even know
and the or the seem quite knows because
initially hunter was like yeah we'll
just get like five randoms and we'll
teach them League of Legends and
hopefully we'll find a diamond in the
rough and then they just kind of got
smashed and they weren't good scrim
partners for their main team and then
you heard them kind of almost 180 a
little bit on what they're looking to do
this split we're like get a couple more
veterans on the Academy team and make
sure that they're capable of like making
the best of our LCS team as well and so
like I think there's also different
approaches that might work and so I
definitely agree with part that like I
think waiting and seeing a little bit
more is perfectly fine parts you have an
idea of how you know maybe to turn
around like right now do you have an
idea of what you would like to see the
Academy system evolve into or do you
have ideas on what it might be lacking
right now
I think there's a lot of things but
again it comes down to the number of
resources that both riot and the aurochs
can put in and I think a lot of the
focus right now is still on stabilizing
the LCS and recognizing like the first
complete year and like this new system I
do think that a committee me players can
like have opportunities to get a lot
more exposure which they don't yet they
can be like they have opportunities to
they don't necessarily have to play best
of ones they can play best of threes
because if part of the stuff isn't
streamed anyway then we may as well give
them more experience maybe find more
opportunities for the academy players to
play on stage there's a lot of things
that we can do for them and I think we
will do looking into the future it's
just we haven't reached that point yet
where the resources that are currently
dedicated to the LCS teams for the new
orgs that came in can kind of go into
there gotcha anything else that you
would add strife I see I you know you
meted yourself I don't know if you're
still here
yeah no no I think that's very just wait
and wait for a while and see how it goes
and then think about how you can grow it
because I think it would be a worthwhile
for LCS to grow it get people more games
that they were upset about losing once
they went to the best ones you know yeah
after a little bit to grow it sounds
good thank you let me go in Thank You
oming thank you for every time I love
you got every time you shadow the
sponsor that is this is brilliant it's
just it creates a lot of work for me
because then I got to go back and find
all these clips of something thank you
though I really appreciate it yeah oh
you lost him but yeah he was done he's
like peace alright so that is the show
part how many messages for you I noticed
in the middle of that call you're like
looking over at your second water I
assumed you were getting messages from
people like Dave Park you just went in
yo some some people really live apart
this is a after that or something but
like I don't know I think it's totally
appropriate like if you I mean here's
here's what like the caller calls in
says that there needs to be change I'd
like the management level basically
implying similar to our
last caller last night that like the
person he's talking to should perhaps
not have the job they have I have no
problem with letting the that individual
then you thought hunter was to PC I
thought this was the show where you get
to not be PC yeah no dude I encourage
everyone to come on here a dumb question
to just rip on it like I've definitely
ripped on a call or two and like yeah
someone came in it was basically like
GSM sucks from the top down because they
haven't won internationally very much
and it's like but no one's done better
TSM is the most successful franchise in
North American history by far and Simon
close and then like they don't have any
specific thing that they want to point
to like you know what if someone comes
on there it says that's me I'm like go
fuck yourself like I think that's
totally fine you know if the color come
in and said like hey I actually think
that like maybe tsm's
you know they should have had like a
stronger set of AD carries and parth
winning on him and like really you want
to talk to me about our ad carry pool
that's a little different than like I
think TSM should maybe not have the
leadership they have and then and then
parse that kind of goes in on them so I
think it would be different Evi I think
it's also like maybe miss sorry some of
the pot some of the arguments are
justified right like the number of
operations we've had are a lot more and
I can see why it is incredibly
disappointing like every time we go to
international tournaments and don't do
well we are insanely to win it - but
I've been with them since Wow
what was it and since world's 2015 and I
can like recount to you every
international tournament like the
narrative for our team there in 2015
audiences
like big nose dyrus knows everyone on
that team knew that we were not making
it of that group at that point like a
lot of players were looking to retire
already like dyrus unless boy were
already pretty checked out and so the
team environment was pretty meh
the next one was 2016 worlds that's the
one I feel this the most regretful
because I think compared to
every other team there our level at that
point the 2016 roster was a lot higher
and I do think that if we had done
prepared or like if we tweaked a million
different things we could have probably
made it out of that group and maybe gone
far and that's like my one big regret at
an international tournament is 2016
worlds 2017 MSI we had to restructure
the entire team to play around turtle
and so I don't even think that that was
the one split where I do think that c9
should have gone instead of TSM because
I think CNN was the better team at the
time I even told mark this when we came
back and I was like we had this
conversation I'm like yeah I'm pretty
sure c9 just was a better team and
actually would have done better at MSI
at 2017 and last Worlds we just had like
it was a combination of the meta and how
we played the early game that it didn't
really matter if we had gone further we
probably like if we were in a different
group or against a different set of
proponents we wouldn't have done that
well because at that point we just
weren't like we didn't understand how to
play it out so I mean sometimes it's
like you have a chance to and you blow
it sometimes like the things just don't
align and every time the players and
like the org and the staff members that
go to every international tournament
learn a lot from it like we're
definitely better as an org like Peter
is better as a player Jerry gets better
as a player for everyone he's gone to
and that experience is like the same
thing that carries them through like
their own region so they have more
chances and so at some point I hope an
ace continues to abide by the idea that
they do want to do super well
internationally and I'm super proud of
players like Peter and Derek who like
carry that torch so so let me ask you
parts just just I Karasu why not have
given that answer like why not take that
tact with the last caller I'm not saying
you should have by the way I'm just
curious like you gave that answer now
you could have responded last color that
way - yeah but his question was kind of
bullshit so yeah
the guy wasn't like what happened then
that you think it's not management you
know like yeah I think yeah it wasn't
manage there's a reasonable answer if
the question was recent little but yeah
like I don't think Beck I was gonna get
swayed if that was part answer either so
like you know like and and that thing is
is a lot of people if some people were
like oh those are a bunch of excuses
it's like no those are reasons and like
I'm sure everyone in any of those
situations where they came up short will
take some level of fault for them but
the the problem with that caller was
also the assumption that like someone
else could have done better and it's
like that's probably not the case like
yeah like in a perfect world yeah you
can pretend that someone done better but
they weren't there for a reason like I
never went to a world for a reason
people like so I I might give a
suggestion for colors in the future
because the second episode we've had to
deal with this maybe don't call it and
suggest that the person you're talking
to shouldn't have their job no dude dude
I love it
I can't believe I can't believe Hunter
was so PC yesterday well ok hunters in a
completely different situation he like
he is here comes the Travis cafard
hunter defense but hunter is like a
unpopular owner at the moment or head-on
an unpopular team you are like a very
well respected figure he was talking to
like a another professional in the end
arguable after this yeah segment and I I
think I think you know the situation's
were different parts artists hunter just
said into M chat I love you Parthenon
capital letters and to be fair like a
lot of people do have parts back for
just being like man fuck that guy
because I mean like any time you give a
strong opinion on something like you're
gonna increase connectivity with fans
who or and people who think a similar
way and people who don't feel that way
will not like you as much and that's
just how it always is whenever you're
speaking your mind it's hard when there
were like there were people on Twitch at
last night saying Hunter shouldn't have
his job there is nobody in twitch chat
saying that to you tonight but I do
agree that Hunter was kind of he
probably could have well that one also
kind of like it kind of came out of left
field right he came out of left field
and it was even like more directed guy
wasn't like
parth you're the reason TSM has never
gotten anywhere in world that's kind of
how the last one was it's just more like
there's gonna I thought he was gonna go
down the route of like the reggie thing
when I initially saw his quit or like
when he's initially starts a lot of nice
color was gonna see like his Reggie too
involved in the team or some right I
thought that I thought that's where that
was gonna go when he said there's
management issues at the top but like I
would actually have anything to pinpoint
which is like how do you even defend
when someone's just like nebulously
attacked look 10 by the way why are you
scared our last caller so much the NC
double-a guy he printed twitch chat
sorry my heart was literally racing for
the call before mine sorry if I did
phrase my point while or seven shaky
because I was really shook next time
people run into party just like in the
LCS like parking lots of service to
cough syrup icture with bjergsen cuz
they're gonna be like oh that's the guy
over yeah that's gonna happen cars gonna
turn into their security detail
yeah is there anything this man can't do
alright well that's the show everyone
mark do you have anything you want to
say here at the end
nope I'm happy Park finally came on the
show no yeah part thank you for coming
on I think it was a as always like I
love chatting with you about the stuff I
always think that you have really unique
and well-thought-out answer this stuff
it's it's kind of cool to go down memory
lane with some of these TSM moments and
and get your experience because you've
been around for a long time is there
anything that you want to promote any
long-form documentary series that a
company that you work for produces or
anything along those lines yeah I mean
we'll have a few content pieces coming
up in the offseason but mostly just to
all the TSM fans who are super
disappointed by this split we fully
believe in the town of our roster and
even like the in our coaching staff and
we're going to be keeping and working
with all of them for an exploit I'll be
helping
song and lustboy sort of on the outside
helping them structure things
but outside of that I hope we have a
strong showing next foot and we will see
you for another disappointing worlds
well that doesn't get you high for the
tsf and I don't know what well I thank
you so much again two parts for coming
on the show thank you to Steve who just
sent five thousand bits literally paid
by Steve said nice show thanks for the
great content Travis always fun to watch
hopefully see you in Berlin thank you to
Kody jungle and little Kosh as well for
their support in the final moments of
this I've got if you if you're watching
this and you missed last night's we
actually did two hotline League episodes
this week this one with parts last
night's with hunters I think they were
both great and worthy of a watch so if
you watch this one
great news you've got a whole another
one to watch and I think I should have
some more content exciting stuff coming
out later this week I'm gonna talk about
League of Legends tinder there's a video
that's coming out about that I'm looking
forward to I just did an interview with
their founders so thanks everyone for
watching this has been a hot line League
episode at 25